# Undefined

Undefined means that  a variable has not been defined or simply put it has only been declared with noting assigned to it for example (var myVar) is undefined  because it has not been initialized ;

```js
let firstName;
console.log(firstName) //not defined, because it is not assigned to a value yet
```


# String 

A string is a text  in "" ,'' or ``.
Strings are also refferd to as string literals.

```js
let string = "";

```
## Escaping strings 

Lets say you have a string and you want to add a quote inside the string.
You would do this by using the escape character (\) like so \" \".
```js
let quote =" \"To be or not to be\" - William Shakespeare";
```

# Number

A number is a number 

# Null

 This means nothing but can also mean that  something is set to  nothing.
 For example an empty string.

 ```js
 let null = "";

 ```


# Boolean
Boolean means true or false. The use of these data types will be clear when you start the comparison operator. Any comparisons return a boolean value which is either true or false.


## Truthy values - Boolean

- All numbers(positive and negative) are truthy except zero
- All strings are truthy except an empty string ('')
- The boolean true

## Falsy values - Boolean

- 0
- 0n
- null
- undefined
- NaN
- the boolean false
- '', "", ``, empty string

It is good to remember those truthy values and falsy values. 


# Symbol 

A symbol is an immutable primitive value that is unique (more onthat later in ....) 

# Object

An Object stores key value pairs (more on that later in ...)


Data types can be divided into two:

Primitive data types
Non-primitive data types(Object References)


## Primitive data types in JavaScript include:

Numbers - Integers, floats
Strings - Any data under single quote, double quote or backtick quote
Booleans - true or false value
Null - empty value or no value
Undefined - a declared variable without a value
Symbol - A unique value that can be generated by Symbol constructor


 Primitive data types are immutable(non-modifiable) data types. Once a primitive data type is created we cannot modify it.


## Non-primitive data types in JavaScript includes:

Objects
Arrays

Non-primitive data types are modifiable or mutable. We can modify the value of non-primitive data types after it gets created. Let us see by creating an array. 


## Note well

If you struggle to understand the difference between primitive and none-primitive data types don't worry just continue reading and practicing by making up your own exercises and you will get there!

 